---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Bumming in New Delhi
category: travel
---

I'm currently cuddled up in my sleeping bag next to a coffee shop at the New Delhi airport, using the last 30 minutes of the scratch card WiFi that a stranger left behind on the floor.

After checking email and fantasy basketball lineup, I'm using the last of my WiFi to post what I wrote on the plane before I must return to sleeping...and telling all these Chinese tourists that I do not speak Chinese. At Gangzhou, it was so awkward because people would talk to me in Chinese and I would have no clue what is going on, then they would tap my shoulders and repeat what they said, and I'm just like, "Uhh, sorry I'm Korean."
<p style="text-align: center;">- - -</p>
<p style="text-align: left;">On the plane, I thought about what this trip meant to me. At first, I just didn't want to stay at home all break, complaining about how there's no snow on the mountains this year, or how boring it is to be back in Mill Creek. But after Tanzania and growing more interest in development work, specifically within the healthcare sector, I realized I barely knew anything.</p>
<p style="text-align: left;">In the book "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Overrated-More-Changing-World-Actually/dp/0781411122">Overrated</a>," Eugene Cho, the founder of One-Day Wages, challenges the readers to consider if we are more in love with the <em>idea </em>of changing the world than actually changing the world. It is so common nowadays to see people talk about "justice" on social media (e.g. ALS bucket challenge), but really people rarely are passionate about a cause and seek to research extensively about that issue.</p>
<p style="text-align: left;">In that sense, I am completely overrated. I say that I want to build hospitals in developing countries after graduation, but I haven't done much research myself. From Cho's testimony, I <em>understand</em> that the path will be challenging, yet I unrealistically expect a simple solution and have done little to prepare myself.</p>
<p style="text-align: left;">So to change that, I decided to travel to India to learn about the different healthcare systems around the world. India was perfect since ViFlex glasses was focusing on reaching the rural regions of SE Asia, and it was easy to see a variety of systems all at once: Western hospitals, Ayurvedic, etc.</p>
But I don't want to come off as a crusader. After all, I'm just a junior in college, studying engineering. I don't have a clue what I'm doing in life. I'm just running around, pretending like I know what I'm doing.

After reading this <a href="http://www.newrepublic.com/article/120178/problem-international-development-and-plan-fix-it">article</a> and from volunteering with EWH, I've grown cautious to think of myself as helping others. Even with the best intentions, sometimes development work or aid can actually hurt the recipient communities. It seems as if international development is a big paradox. But as Michael Hobbes concludes, development is not broken, but our exceptions of it are. We need to ditch "we have so much, they have so little" mindset.

With that in mind, I am off to Jaipur to first learn about the culture and see what healthcare is like in both big hospitals and neglected leprosy centers. If I really want to work in development, perhaps this is the first step I should take.

And to address my naive, unrealistic expectations for my future, I end with verse (stealing my former roommate's favorite Bible verse):
<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: center;">For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him.</p>
<p style="text-align: center;">- Philippians 1:29</p>
</blockquote>
