---
author: yitaek
comments: true
date: 2015-02-23 06:26:49+00:00
layout: post
link: https://yitaek.wordpress.com/2015/02/23/sagaba/
slug: sagaba
title: Sagaba
wordpress_id: 356
category: thoughts
---

It's funny how things change over time. Lying down underneath the mosquito net in Huruma Hospital on a rainy night in August, I could only focus on the meaning of _sagaba_. Surrounded by people yet feeling so alone on that bed next to the broken windows and afraid to face the surge of emotion as I sobered up, I reflected on how Tanzania trip had been a rude awakening to reality: harsh, merciless, full of hypocrisy. I was so filled with disenchantment that I could only relate to the girl in Blue Scholar's song _Sagaba. _


_Sister sits on the steps_ _ Cigarette rests on fingertips_ _ Takes a sip of slow death deftly through her lips_ _ She blows a kiss_ _ Which I can only resist in vain_ _ She got the gift of gravity pulling to ask her name_ _ She says, "Sagaba"_ _ What's it mean? She says, "In Ilocano_ _ It translates into suffering."_ _ I'm pondering the irony to conjure up the fearlessness to find a conversation_ _ She offers me a square, I decline the invitation_ _ It reminds me of the days when I would chain smoke_ _ Broken with no hope_ _ Like broken like the manner she spoke_ _ We both_ _ Two people seeking_ _ Solace and remembrance_




_[...]_




_I couldn't stand to see the queen breathe her dreams away_ _ And tell me her tomorrow will never become today_ _ I say I used to know a woman just like you_ _ Beautiful but jaded by the multitude of men who'd often try to_ _ Justify their lies with twisted notions of survival_ _ And hide behind their armor when karma complete a cycle_ _ She replied_ _ Just because I knew a woman well it doesn't mean I know them all_ _ She begins to bade farewell_ _ Eyes up to the sky, she sighs, I need nobody_ _ True indeed, sister, but you still need everybody because_ _ We hardly know ourselves if we know nobody else_ _ And only in our loneliness can home become a hell_ _ Exhale_ _ The cloud in the loudest form of silence_ _ Watches as it rises like suns over horizons_




_[...]_




_Dreams be the ashes_ _ Burns and thrashing in the wind_ _ Flying out the burning bush attached to sister's hand_ _ Who whispers, "word"_ _ Smiling and giving thanks, living in doubt no longer_ _ As she figures out the riddles to the song_ _ Saying why must we suffer now to not suffer later if later_ _ Never comes soon enough to soothe the hatred_ _ And hatred is the cancer born out of love's absence_ _ And the absence is the void left from missing every change to_ _ Challenge our fates and perhaps our very names_




Now that time has passed, I am sitting in my bed, not wanting to brace myself for the cold Carolina weather--listening to the same song yet again. But now my name is no longer sagaba or believe that my tomorrow will never become today. Instead I can't help but "intervene" because I can't stand to "see the queen breathe her dreams away."




But the thing is I still don't know how to help.




Last night, I read on "You Are Not Alone" on Duke page, someone describe depression: Depression feels like you're wading upstream a river, and you're watching everyone else on land walking by past you. Sometimes they'll stop and tell you how everything is going to be okay, but then they leave. Sometimes you find some relief...a rock that you can latch onto and catch your breath, but then it's the same. It tires of holding you up and gives way, and you're thrown back into the water. And it's so hard to tell yourself to keep going, to keep fighting the current, when your mind tells you that things would be so much easier if you would just let yourself get pulled under.




The words the writer said hurt him the most were:




"Be strong" "It'll all be okay" "Life finds a way"


I thought if I could relate, by going through a similar experience, I could understand. Perhaps I'm just different, but I still don't really understand why those words hurt. I feel like my fight against the current was necessarily a personal experience. It did not matter that others would walk on by, talk for a bit, and leave. Isn't that just life? My question was never why am I not on land. In fact, I didn't question it at all. I was just focused on rock that I was clinging onto. But as the girl in the song says, just because I knew my experience well doesn't mean I know them all. As I finally begin to uncover layers of my confusion, I'm starting to realize the difference between my experience and others is the notion of choice. I jumped into the water myself. Sure, I was jaded by a series of betrayals, lying to myself be someone who I am not, and pushing people away, I always knew I had a choice. Not in a sense that I could break out if I wanted to, but that I chose to throw myself in the water. I was dejected, but not lost. Maybe I am just romanticizing things again. Minimizing the situation. Making everything seem easy.


But in either case, I'm back to where I began. At least I learned knowledge does not necessarily lead to empathy. The power of experience, in my opinion, lies in my ability to now say this:




_True indeed, sister, but you still need everybody because_ _ We hardly know ourselves if we know nobody else_ _ And only in our loneliness can home become a hell_




I may still find myself callously saying "it will all work out" because that's just how I think and how I swam out of the current. I may still be useless in terms of reaching out to those questioning "why must we suffer now to not suffer later if later never comes soon enough." I may never be able to find my Fatima and be the person I wanted to be when I was in the water.




At least, I now know this:




_The absence is the void left from missing every change to_ c_hallenge our fates and perhaps our very names_




Yitaek literally translates to beneficial/helpful pond/well, so I construed that to be bit like oasis. But as I researched the meaning of my name again, I found that "yi" could mean sharp and "taek" could also mean swamp. Perhaps as life goes on to challenge our fates and my very own name, I am not necessarily losing my identity, but going from one identity to another.
